# Population Density vs Disease
This repository contains the implementation of our paper*: \
M. A. Mutasodirin, R. D. Rizqullah, A. Setiyoko, and A. M. Arymurthy, *"The Use of Settlement Mapping to Improve Problem Modelling in Spatial Analysis of an Area Against Disease Risk: Case Study on Central and East Java Indonesia"*, 2021. \
\*Being submitted into: The 6th International Workshop on Big Data and Information Security (IWBIS) 2021.

# Abstract
Population density is one of the variables investigated for its correlation to a disease. Unfortunately, researchers are still modeling population density as the ratio of the total population to the administrative area. This method oversimplifies the problem, because it covers a large uninhabited area. In this study, we improve the previous modeling into the ratio of population to the area of settlement. We use settlement mapping against satellite imagery to calculate settlement areas. This study shows that the proposed method improves modeling, according to the increase in the Pearson and Spearman Correlation Coefficient of Tuberculosis, only if the correlation exists. In the old model, the Pearson and Spearman correlation to Tuberculosis disease in Central Java was 0.368 and 0.495 respectively, and in the new model, 0.580 and 0.608 respectively. We also confirmed the improvement in East Java province. In addition to improve modelling, this result is expected to be one of the drivers to map settlements in the territory of Indonesia on a large scale.
